PYPAR TODO LIST:
----------------
	
Check that code for numpy migration is OK (Vladimir and Prabhu?) 	

Check that pypar works properly with numpy on a variety of platforms (Everyone)

Update setup.py to work with new structure (Prabhu?)

Update create_release.py to make distros for sourceforge (Ole)	
	
Find a TRAC server to manage this list (and point to the sourceforg SVN)

Remove obsoleted code (e.g. raw forms)
	
Fix up reduce to deal with complex as well as ND.	
	
New tests using unit testing framework.

Better documentation (LaTeX files in pypar/documentation/manuals 
should provide a good starting point).

Use proper Python exceptions in mpiext.c

Create Debian and RPM packages (maybe even a Windows installer)

Make list of projects using pypar, e.g. http://sourceforge.net/projects/pyfdm/	


Incorporate pypar in Parallel Knoppix (Michael Creel)
	
Add examples from Summerschool 2005 to pypar distribution.
		
Re-introduce optional length if one wants to communicate less 
than given array (very low priotity)

max_tag is set to 32767. This works for Linux/LAM      
I couldn't use MPI_TAG_UB as it returned 0.
I would like a general solution.


Scatter needs to send buffer specified on all processes
even though it is ignored by all non-root processes.
How could we overcome that?
Similar problem for gather
  
Gather and scatter: One should be able to specify along which axis
arrays should be concatenated.



REMEMBER

mpirun -np 3 python -i -c "import pypar"
Remember to put pypar.pth in site-packages automatically..


DONE:
-----

Migration to numpy
Address 2D arays as per mails (dir: 2D)	- DONE version 1.7
Fix up status object to be returned (depending on optional flag arg)	

Get pypar to work under redhat 7.1 with LAM as per suggestion by Doug Orr
(LAM assumes that last commandline arg is None) See fra_DOUG.husk3.
ALso acknowledge Dave Reed for pointing out the problem. DONE.
Wait for dave reed to acknowledge that it also works under solaris.
DONE in 1.6.5


Also add to doc that pypar needs Numeric (and Python 2.3?) (Already in there)

Fix confusing errmsg when Numeric isn't installed (David Brown)